# nf-core/rnasplice: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished specified by the `--outdir`. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and processes data using the following steps:

- Preprocessing
  - [cat](#cat) - Merge re-sequenced FastQ files.
  - [FastQC](#fastqc) - Raw read QC.
  - [TrimGalore](#trimgalore) - Adapter and quality trimming
- Alignment and quantification.
  - [STAR and Salmon](#star-and-salmon) - Fast spliced aware genome alignment and transcriptome quantification.
  - [STAR and featureCounts](#star-and-featurecounts) - Memory efficient quantification.
  - [STAR and DEXSeq Count](#star-and-dexseq-count) - Alignment and quantification of expression levels
- Alignment post-processing.
  - [SAMtools](#samtools) - Sort and index alignments
- Other steps.
  - [BEDTools and bedGraphToBigWig](#bedtools-and-bedgraphtobigwig) - Create bigWig coverage files
- Quality control.
  - [MultiQC](#multiqc) - Aggregate report describing results and QC from the whole pipeline
- Pseudo-alignment and quantification.
  - [Salmon](#salmon) - Wicked fast gene and isoform quantification relative to the transcriptome
- Differential Exon Usage (DEU).
  - [DEXSeq](#dexseq) - For differential exon usage analysis following quantification with HTSeq.
  - [edgeR](#edger) - For differential exon usage (includes differential exon expression) following quantification with featureCounts
- Differential Transcript Usage (DTU).
  - [DRIMSeq](#drimseq) - Filtering of genes and features prior to DTU.
  - [DEXSeq](#dexseq-1) - For differential transcript usage analysis following Salmon pseudo-alignment and quantification.
- Event-based Differential Splicing analysis.
  - [rMats](#rmats) - Designed for detection of differential alternative splicing from replicate RNA-Seq data.
  - [SUPPA2](#suppa2) - Differential splicing analysis across multiple conditions at local event based and transcript isoform level following Salmon pseuodo-alignment and quantification.
- Workflow reporting and genomes
  - [Reference genome files](#reference-genome-files) - Saving reference genome indices/files
  - [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution

## Preprocessing

### cat

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `fastq/`
  - `*.merged.fastq.gz`: If `--save_merged_fastq` is specified, concatenated FastQ files will be placed in this directory.

</details>

As in the [nf-core/rnaseq](https://github.com/nf-core/rnaseq) pipeline users are able to specify samples with multiple runs/libraries - for example if users wish to increase sequencing depth. To ensure naming consistency these samples will automatically be merged at the beginning of the pipeline using the `cat` module. Please refer to the [usage documentation](https://nf-co.re/rnasplice/usage#samplesheet-input) to see how to specify these samples in the input samplesheet correctly.

### FastQC

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `fastqc/`
  - `*_fastqc.html`: FastQC report containing quality metrics.
  - `*_fastqc.zip`: Zip archive containing the FastQC report, tab-delimited data file and plot images.

</details>

[FastQC](http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastqc/) is a general QC standard for any sequencing workflow and nf-core/rnasplice runs this at the beginning of the pipeline to generate general quality metrics about your sequenced reads. For example, FASTQC provides numerous quality control scores such as quality score distribution across reads, per base sequence content (%A/T/G/C), adapter contamination and overrepresented sequences [FastQC help pages](http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastqc/Help/).

### TrimGalore

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `trimgalore/`
  - `*.fq.gz`: If `--save_trimmed` is specified, FastQ files **after** adapter trimming will be placed in this directory.
  - `*_trimming_report.txt`: Log file generated by Trim Galore!.
- `trimgalore/fastqc`
  - `*_fastqc.html`: FastQC report containing quality metrics for read 1 (*and read2 if paired-end*) **after** adapter trimming.
  - `*_fastqc.zip`: Zip archive containing the FastQC report, tab-delimited data file and plot images.

[Trim Galore!](https://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/trim_galore/) is a commonly used pre-processing tool which wraps [Cutadapt](https://cutadapt.readthedocs.io/en/stable/). This allows it to perform read trimming (quality and adapter) on FastQ sequencing files. By default, Trim Galore! will attempt to automatically detect adapter sequences before trimming. In addition Trim Galore! wraps FastQC so can perform a subsequent QC step on downstream trimmed reads to get a before and after QC picture.

> **NB:** Please note, as highlighted by the [nf-core/rnaseq](https://github.com/nf-core/rnaseq) pipeline: "TrimGalore! will only run using multiple cores if you are able to use more than > 5 and > 6 CPUs for single- and paired-end data, respectively. The total cores available to TrimGalore! will also be capped at 4 (7 and 8 CPUs in total for single- and paired-end data, respectively) because there is no longer a run-time benefit. See [release notes](https://github.com/FelixKrueger/TrimGalore/blob/master/Changelog.md#version-060-release-on-1-mar-2019) and [discussion whilst adding this logic to the nf-core/atacseq pipeline](https://github.com/nf-core/atacseq/pull/65)".

</details>

## Alignment and quantification

### STAR and Salmon

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `star_salmon/` or `star/`
  - `*.Aligned.out.bam`: If `--save_align_intermeds` is specified the original BAM file containing read alignments to the reference genome will be placed in this directory.
  - `*.Aligned.toTranscriptome.out.bam`: If `--save_align_intermeds` is specified the original BAM file containing read alignments to the transcriptome will be placed in this directory.
- `star_salmon/log/` or `star/log/`
  - `*.SJ.out.tab`: File containing filtered splice junctions detected after mapping the reads.
  - `*.Log.final.out`: STAR alignment report containing the mapping results summary.
  - `*.Log.out` and `*.Log.progress.out`: STAR log files containing detailed information about the run. Typically only useful for debugging purposes.
- `star_salmon/unmapped/` or or `star/unmapped/`
  - `*.fastq.gz`: If `--save_unaligned` is specified, FastQ files containing unmapped reads will be placed in this directory.

</details>

[STAR](https://github.com/alexdobin/STAR) is a highly accurate splice aware read aligner used frequently for RNA-seq. Although STAR has a high memory usage it has been shown to be far quicker than other aligners whilst maintaining accuracy. Using `--aligner star` or `--aligner star_salmon` allows the user to choose either STAR aligner alone, or STAR with salmon quantification and will define the output directory as `star/` or `star_salmon/` respectively.

[Salmon](https://salmon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/salmon.html) from [Ocean Genomics](https://www.oceangenomics.com/) is a pseudo-aligner tool for "wicked-fast" transcript quantification for RNA-seq data. It requires a set of target transcripts (either from a reference or de-novo assembly) in order to perform quantification. To run Salmon all that is required is a FASTA reference file, and a set of sequencing files containing your reads in FASTA, FASTQ, or BAM file format. Importantly, Salmon is also able to act as a quantification tool, and as such transcriptome-level BAMs output from STAR can be supplied to Salmon for downstream quantification. If users supply a FASTQ file only, then they are able to run Salmon as a pure pseudo-aligner for very fast alignment and also quantification. This can be specified by providing the `--pseudo_aligner salmon` parameter.

A useful section of the MultiQC output is in the STAR section which shows a bar plot with alignment rates. As in the [nf-core/rnaseq](https://github.com/nf-core/rnaseq) pipeline: "good samples should have most reads as *Uniquely mapped* and few *Unmapped* reads".

### featureCounts

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `subread/featurecounts/`
  - `*featureCounts.txt`: Counts of reads mapping to features.
  - `*featureCounts.txt.summary`: Summary log file for MultiQC.

</details>

This workflow uses [featureCounts](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article/30/7/923/232889) following STAR alignment if users choose edgeR for differential exon usage with the `--aligner star` or `--aligner star_salmon` and `--edger_exon` parameters. [featureCounts](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article/30/7/923/232889) from the Subread package is a quantification tool used to summarise reads over genomic features. In this case we count the number of reads overlapping each exon for each each gene before using edgeR for differential exon usage.

### DEXSeq Count (HTSeq)

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `dexseq_exon/counts/`
  - `*.clean.count.txt`: Counts of reads mapping to features.

</details>

This workflow uses DEXSeq count which under the hood uses some functionality from [HTSeq](https://htseq.readthedocs.io/en/master/) following STAR alignment if users choose DEXSeq Exon for differential exon usage with the `--aligner star` or `--aligner star_salmon` and `--dexseq_exon` parameters. DEXSeq count is a python script shipped with the [DEXSeq](https://bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/vignettes/DEXSeq/inst/doc/DEXSeq.html) package which uses parts of the [HTSeq](https://htseq.readthedocs.io/en/master/) Python package functionality to count the number of reads which overlap with exon counting bins.

## Alignment post-processing

The pipeline has been written in a way where all the files generated downstream of the alignment are placed in the same directory as specified by `--aligner` e.g. if `--aligner star_salmon` is specified then all the downstream results will be placed in the `star_salmon/` directory. If  `--aligner star` is specified then all the downstream results will be placed in the `star` directory. And if `--pseudo-aligner salmon` is provided all tools downstream of Salmon will be placed in the `salmon` directory. This means that results won't be overwritten if portions of the pipeline are specified which duplicate downstream analysis (e.g. if `--aligner star_salmon` and `--pseudo-aligner salmon` are both specified). The pipeline can therefore be used for benchmarking between alignment algorithms if required.

### SAMtools

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `star_salmon/` or `star/`
  - `<SAMPLE>.sorted.bam`: If `--save_align_intermeds` is specified the original coordinate sorted BAM file containing read alignments will be placed in this directory.
  - `<SAMPLE>.sorted.bam.bai`: If `--save_align_intermeds` is specified the BAI index file for the original coordinate sorted BAM file will be placed in this directory.
  - `<SAMPLE>.sorted.bam.csi`: If `--save_align_intermeds --bam_csi_index` is specified the CSI index file for the original coordinate sorted BAM file will be placed in this directory.
- `star_salmon/samtools_stats/` or `star/samtools_stats/`
  - SAMtools `<SAMPLE>.sorted.bam.flagstat`, `<SAMPLE>.sorted.bam.idxstats` and `<SAMPLE>.sorted.bam.stats` files generated from the alignment files.

</details>

Following STAR alignment BAM files are next processed with [SAMtools](http://samtools.sourceforge.net/) to sort and index them, as well as generate read mapping statistics.

## Other steps

### BEDTools and bedGraphToBigWig

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `star_salmon/bigwig/` or `star/bigwig/`
  - `*.forward.bigWig`: bigWig coverage file relative to genes on the forward DNA strand.
  - `*.reverse.bigWig`: bigWig coverage file relative to genes on the reverse DNA strand.

</details>

A common requirement in splicing analysis is the need to visualise alignments using a genome browser. To facilitate this process nf-core/rnasplice will output [bigWig](https://genome.ucsc.edu/goldenpath/help/bigWig.html) files, if required, which are an indexed binary format which can display dense, continuous data. Examples of genomes browsers users may wish to use are [IGV](https://software.broadinstitute.org/software/igv/) or [UCSC](https://genome.ucsc.edu/cgi-bin/hgTracks) which both accept [bigWig] files as input. Furthermore, bigwig files can be used downstream for meta-profile plotting with tools such as [deepTools](https://deeptools.readthedocs.io/en/develop/).

## Quality control

### MultiQC

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `multiqc/`
  - `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
  - `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
  - `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.

</details>

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarising all samples in your project. Most of the pipeline QC results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

Results generated by MultiQC collate pipeline QC from supported tools e.g. FastQC. The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability. For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see <http://multiqc.info>.

## Pseudo-alignment and quantification

### Salmon

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `salmon/tximport/`
  - `salmon.merged.gene_counts.tsv`: Matrix of gene-level raw counts across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.gene_tpm.tsv`: Matrix of gene-level TPM values across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.gene_counts.rds`: RDS object that can be loaded in R that contains a [SummarizedExperiment](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/SummarizedExperiment.html) container with the TPM (`abundance`), estimated counts (`counts`) and transcript length (`length`) in the assays slot for genes.
  - `salmon.merged.gene_counts_scaled.tsv`: Matrix of gene-level scaled counts across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.gene_counts_scaled.rds`: RDS object that can be loaded in R that contains a [SummarizedExperiment](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/SummarizedExperiment.html) container with the TPM (`abundance`), estimated counts (`counts`) and transcript length (`length`) in the assays slot for genes.
  - `salmon.merged.gene_counts_length_scaled.tsv`: Matrix of gene-level length-scaled counts across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.gene_counts_length_scaled.rds`: RDS object that can be loaded in R that contains a [SummarizedExperiment](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/SummarizedExperiment.html) container with the TPM (`abundance`), estimated counts (`counts`) and transcript length (`length`) in the assays slot for genes.
  - `salmon.merged.gene_tpm_scaled.tsv`: Matrix of gene-level scaled TPM across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.gene_tpm_length_scaled.tsv`: Matrix of gene-level length-scaled TPM across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.transcript_counts.tsv`: Matrix of isoform-level raw counts across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.transcript_tpm.tsv`: Matrix of isoform-level TPM values across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.transcript_counts.rds`: RDS object that can be loaded in R that contains a [SummarizedExperiment](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/SummarizedExperiment.html) container with the TPM (`abundance`), estimated counts (`counts`) and transcript length (`length`) in the assays slot for transcripts.
  - `salmon.merged.transcript_counts_scaled.tsv`: Matrix of isoform-level scaled raw counts across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.transcript_counts_length_scaled.tsv`: Matrix of isoform-level length-scaled raw counts across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.transcript_counts_dtu_scaled.tsv`: Matrix of isoform-level dtu scaled raw counts across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.transcript_tpm_scaled.tsv`: Matrix of isoform-level scaled TPM values across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.transcript_tpm_length_scaled.tsv`: Matrix of isoform-level length-scaled TPM values across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.transcript_tpm_dtu_scaled.tsv`: Matrix of isoform-level dtu scaled TPM values across all samples.
  - `salmon.merged.gi.rds`: Tximport R object following tximport::summarizeToGene with countsFromAbundance = "no"
  - `salmon.merged.gi.s.rds`: Tximport R object following tximport::summarizeToGene with countsFromAbundance = "scaledTPM"
  - `salmon.merged.gi.ls.rds`: Tximport R object following tximport::summarizeToGene with countsFromAbundance = "lengthScaledTPM"
  - `salmon.merged.txi.rds`: Tximport R object following tximport::tximport with countsFromAbundance = "no"
  - `salmon.merged.txi.s.rds`: Tximport R object following tximport::tximport with countsFromAbundance = "scaledTPM"
  - `salmon.merged.txi.ls.rds`: Tximport R object following tximport::tximport with countsFromAbundance = "lengthScaledTPM"
  - `salmon.merged.txi.dtu.rds`: Tximport R object following tximport::tximport with countsFromAbundance = "dtuScaledTPM"
  - `tximport.tx2gene.tsv`: Filtered Tab-delimited file containing gene to transcripts ids mappings.
  - `suppa_tpm.txt`: Tab-delimited file containing TPM normalised counts formatted for SUPPA downstream analysis
- `salmon/<SAMPLE>/`
  - `aux_info/`: Auxiliary info e.g. versions and number of mapped reads.
  - `cmd_info.json`: Information about the Salmon quantification command, version and options.
  - `lib_format_counts.json`: Number of fragments assigned, unassigned and incompatible.
  - `libParams/`: Contains the file `flenDist.txt` for the fragment length distribution.
  - `logs/`: Contains the file `salmon_quant.log` giving a record of Salmon's quantification.
  - `quant.genes.sf`: Salmon *gene-level* quantification of the sample, including feature length, effective length, TPM, and number of reads.
  - `quant.sf`: Salmon *transcript-level* quantification of the sample, including feature length, effective length, TPM, and number of reads.

</details>

As described in the [STAR and Salmon section](https://github.com/nf-core/rnasplice/blob/master/docs/output.md#star-and-salmon), you can choose to pseudo-align and quantify your data with [Salmon](https://salmon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/salmon.html) by providing the `--pseudo_aligner salmon` parameter.

To summarise Salmon results and produce gene and transcript level counts and normalised (TPM) values we use the [tximport](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/tximport.html) R package. Like the [nf-core/rnaseq](https://github.com/nf-core/rnaseq) pipeline this workflow produces counts, as well as TPM normalised values at gene and transcript level, however it also provides scaled, length-scaled, and dtu-scaled values which may be used for downstream splicing analysis. In particular, scaled, and dtu-scaled TPMs (see the `--dtu_txi dtuScaledTPM` or  `--dtu_txi scaledTPM` parameter) can be chosen by users for DTU analysis with DRIMSeq filtering and DEXSeq as seen in this [workflow](https://f1000research.com/articles/7-952). These files can be accessed as TSVs or as their original R object for ease of use with additional downstream R analysis.

Although this workflow does not deal in differential gene expression we also produce gene level summarisations in TSV format, as well as R objects following tximport::summarizeToGene if users wish to progress to differential gene expression independently. Furthermore, the pipeline will produce a `tximport.tx2gene.tsv` file which has been filtered and matched with the incoming Salmon quant.sf files which can be used for any additional downstream analysis.

This workflow will also produce a `suppa_tpm.txt` which is a tab delimitated text file of TPM normalised counts formatted for SUPPA analysis.

**NB:** As described by the [nf-core/rnaseq](https://github.com/nf-core/rnaseq) pipeline: "The default Salmon parameters and a k-mer size of 31 are used to create the index. As [documented here](https://salmon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/salmon.html#preparing-transcriptome-indices-mapping-based-mode) and [discussed here](https://github.com/COMBINE-lab/salmon/issues/482#issuecomment-583799668), a k-mer size off 31 works well with reads that are 75bp or longer".

**NB:** As described by the [nf-core/rnaseq](https://github.com/nf-core/rnaseq) pipeline: "Transcripts with large inferential uncertainty won't be assigned the exact number of reads reproducibly, every time Salmon is run. Read more about this on the [nf-core/rnaseq](https://github.com/nf-core/rnaseq/issues/585) and [salmon](https://github.com/COMBINE-lab/salmon/issues/613) Github repos".

## Differential Exon Usage (DEU)

### DEXSeq

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `dexseq_exon/results/`
  - `dxd_exon.rds`: DEXSeq R Object following DEXSeq::estimateExonFoldChanges.
  - `dxr_exon.rds`: DEXSeq R Object following DEXSeq::DEXSeqResults containing results.
  - `dxr_exon.tsv`: TSV results table of DEXSeq DEU analysis featuring log2foldchanges and p-values etc.
  - `qval_exon.rds`: DEXSeq R Object following DEXSeq::perGeneQValue containing q-values for results table.
  - `dxr_exon.g.tsv`: TSV file of q-values for qval_exon.rds R Object.
- `dexseq_exon/annotation/`
  - `DEXSeq.gff`: GFF file used for DEXSeq DEU analysis converted from GTF input.
- `dexseq_exon/counts/`
  - `*.clean.count.txt`: Counts of reads mapping to features. (See DEXSeq Count (HTSeq) section above)

</details>

[DEXSeq](https://bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/vignettes/DEXSeq/inst/doc/DEXSeq.html) is used to find differential exon usage. For each gene, [DEXSeq](https://bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/vignettes/DEXSeq/inst/doc/DEXSeq.html) fits a generalized linear model with the formula `~sample + exon + condition:exon` and compares it to the smaller null model `~ sample + exon` and this pipeline utilises these models as default. The `dxd_exon.rds` is a DEXSeqDataSet R object which contains slots with information regarding the tests DEXSeq performs internally for differential exon usage using these models. Please see [this](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/vignettes/DEXSeq/inst/doc/DEXSeq.html#5_Testing_for_differential_exon_usage) for further details. The `dxr_exon.rds` output is a DEXSeqResults R object which summarize the full results contained within the DEXSeqDataSet object. The `dxr_exon.tsv` output is the `dxr_exon.rds` object saved out in TSV format for ease of access. It is also sometimes useful to understand what the FDR is at the gene level - `dxr_exon.tsv` and `dxr_exon.rds` results output contain p-values and q-values on a per-exon level. Situations where this may be useful are when you may need to...
Please see [this](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/vignettes/DEXSeq/inst/doc/DEXSeq.html#101_Controlling_FDR_at_the_gene_level) for further details regarding controlling FDR at the gene level.

Users may also wish to inspect the GFF file that DEXSeq creates prior to running DEXSeq count. This is completed using a python script which is shipped with DEXSeq. This GFF file `DEXSeq.gff` is saved with the `dexseq_exon/annotation/` folder.

Finally, as discussed above in the DEXSeq count section, users can inspect counts of reads mapping to features within the `dexseq_exon/counts/` folder used downstream as input to DEXSeq.
### edgeR

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `edger/`
  - `DGEList.rds`:
  - `DGEGLM.rds`:
  - `DGELRT.*.rds`:
  - `*.csv`:

</details>

[edgeR](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/edgeR.html).

## Differential Transcript Usage (DTU)

### DRIMSeq

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `salmon/dexseq_dtu/`
  - `filter/drimseq/`
    - `d.rds`: A DRIMSeq R Object containing filtered normalised counts table used as input for DEXSeq analysis.

</details>

[DRIMSeq](https://rdrr.io/bioc/DRIMSeq/man/dmFilter.html).

### DEXSeq

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `salmon/dexseq_dtu/`
  - `results/dexseq/`
    - `dxd.rds`: DEXSeq R Object following DEXSeq::estimateExonFoldChanges.
    - `dxr.rds`: DEXSeq R Object following DEXSeq::DEXSeqResults containing results.
    - `dxr.tsv`: TSV results table of DEXSeq DEU analysis featuring log2foldchanges and p-values etc.
    - `qval.rds`: DEXSeq R Object following DEXSeq::perGeneQValue containing q-values for results table.
    - `dxr.g.tsv`: TSV file of q-values for qval_exon.rds R Object.

</details>

[DEXSeq](http://bioconductor.org/packages/release/workflows/vignettes/rnaseqDTU/inst/doc/rnaseqDTU.html).

## Event-based analysis

### rMats

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `rmats/`
  - `rmats_temp/*`: Folder containing .txt and .rmats files which are input for rmats_post step.
  - `rmats_prep.log`: Log file generated for rmats_prep step.
  - `rmats_post/*`: Folder containing results of differential alternative splicing in .txt files.
  - `rmats_post.log`: Log file generated for rmats_post step.

</details>

[rMats](https://github.com/Xinglab/rmats-turbo).

### SUPPA2

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `salmon/suppa/`
  - `generate_events/per_isoform/` or `generate_events/per_local_event/`
    - `events.*`: Shows the relationship between each event and the transcripts that define that particular event.
    - `events_*.*`: Shows the relationship between each individual event type and the transcripts that define that particular event.
  - `psi_per_isoform/`
    - `suppa_isoform.psi`: Contains relative abundance value per sample for transcript isoforms.
  - `psi_per_local_event/`
    - `suppa_local.psi`: Contains relative abundance value per sample for local events.
  - `split_files/per_isoform/` or `split_files/per_local_event/`
    -`*.psi`: Contains relative abundance value per sample for each event (split by sample group)
  - `split_files/tpms/`
    - `*.tpm`: Contains normalised TPM per sample (split by sample group)
  - `diffsplice/per_isoform/` or `diffsplice/per_local_event/`
    - `*.dpsi`: Contains the information about which events are significantly differentially spliced in each pairwise comparison.
    - `*.psivec`: Contains the PSI values for all samples, either per replicate or the average PSI value per condition, averaging over the replicates.
  - `clusterevents/per_isoform/` or `clusterevents/per_local_event/`
    - `*.clustvec`: Contains the events, their mean psi values per condition, and the clusters association. If an event has no associated cluster, it will be assigned to -1.
    - `*.log`: Containing information of the clusters found.

</details>

[SUPPA2](https://github.com/comprna/SUPPA).

## Workflow reporting and genomes

### Reference genome files

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `genome/`
  - `*.fa`, `*.gtf`, `*.gff`, `*.bed`, `.tsv`: If the `--save_reference` parameter is provided then all of the genome reference files will be placed in this directory.
- `genome/index/`
  - `star/`: Directory containing STAR indices.
  - `salmon/`: Directory containing Salmon indices.

</details>

A number of genome-specific files are generated by the pipeline because they are required for the downstream processing of the results. If the `--save_reference` parameter is provided then these will be saved in the `genome/` directory. It is recommended to use the `--save_reference` parameter if you are using the pipeline to build new indices so that you can save them somewhere locally. The index building step can be quite a time-consuming process and it permits their reuse for future runs of the pipeline to save disk space.

### Pipeline information

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pipeline_info/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.

</details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.
